# Sll [0.6.15] - 2021-08-26

## Added

- *\[POSIX only\]* Compilation in debug mode (without `--release` flag) now generates debugging information (gcc `-g` flag)
- If a variable is used before it has been initialized, is is replaced by a zero: `(= x x x x x)` is compiled into `(= x 0 x x x)`
- Object allocation function: `sll_create_object`
- Object creation functions: `sll_int_to_object`, `sll_float_to_object`
- Static objects

### Static Objects

It is very inefficient to constantly allocate objects with common values (such as zero). The `SLL_ACQUIRE_STATIC` macro allows to acquire on of the predefined static object (`int_minus_one`, `int_zero`, `int_one`, `int_two`, `int_three`, `int_four`, `float_zero`, `float_one`, `float_half`, `float_third`, `str_zero` and `array_zero`).
Helper functions (`sll_int_to_object` and `sll_float_to_object`) can be used to automatically convert a C type to either a new or a static object.

## Changed

- Changed how runtime objects are allocated, acquired, released and deallocated
- Combined cleanup functions into single `atexit` function (which calls other functions in the correct order)
- Fixed Function Macro Parsing
- `internal_function_t` now uses `sll_char_t[256]` instead of `char[256]`
- Printing functions now also prints their arguments
- Signatures of functions that return runtime objects

### Runtime Objects

#### Allocation

Runtime Object used to call `malloc()`. This was inefficient, because each runtime object has the same size. Now, runtime objects use a paged memory pool, which gets dynamically increased when more objects are required. A convenience macro named `SLL_CREATE` can also be used to allocate a runtime object.

#### Acquiring

Instead of reference counting for strings and arrays, now every runtime object has built-in reference counting. The `SLL_ACQUIRE` macro increases the object's reference counter.

#### Releasing

The `SLL_RELEASE` macro can be used to decrease the object's reference counter.

#### Deallocation

The `SLL_RELEASE` macro automatically deallocates the object when its last reference is released. It recycles the object back into the memory pool.

## Removed

- Duplicated code in [`src/sll/parse.c`][0.6.15/src/sll/parse.c] and [`src/sll/print.c`][0.6.15/src/sll/print.c]
- `sll_acquire_object` function
- `sll_sys_arg_count_t` has been replaced by `sll_integer_t` (it was easy to confuse with `sll_arg_count_t`)
- The `restrict` keyword (Reverting [#18])

[0.6.15]: https://github.com/sl-lang/sll/compare/sll-v0.6.14...sll-v0.6.15
[#18]: https://github.com/sl-lang/sll/issues/18
[0.6.15/src/sll/parse.c]: https://github.com/sl-lang/sll/blob/sll-v0.6.15/src/sll/parse.c
[0.6.15/src/sll/print.c]: https://github.com/sl-lang/sll/blob/sll-v0.6.15/src/sll/print.c
